Caesar Cipher Documentation
Overview:

The given script implements a basic form of the Caesar Cipher algorithm which is a type of substitution cipher. It replaces each character in the plaintext with a character having a fixed relationship to it.
Functions:
encrypt(text, shift)

This function accepts two arguments - text and shift. The text argument is the plaintext that needs to be encrypted and shift is the integer value by which each character in the plaintext is to be shifted.

Parameters:

    text (str): The plaintext to be encrypted.
    shift (int): The number of positions each character in the plaintext is to be shifted.

Returns:

    str: The encrypted text.

Example:

python

>>> encrypt("hello", 3)
'khoor'

decrypt(text, shift)

This function accepts two arguments - text and shift. The text argument is the ciphertext that needs to be decrypted and shift is the integer value by which each character in the ciphertext is to be shifted backwards.

Parameters:

    text (str): The ciphertext to be decrypted.
    shift (int): The number of positions each character in the ciphertext is to be shifted backwards.

Returns:

    str: The decrypted text.





Example:

python

>>> decrypt("khoor", 3)
'hello'

get_integer_input(prompt)

This function prompts the user to enter an integer value. If the user enters a non-integer value, it will keep prompting the user until a valid integer is entered.

Parameters:

    prompt (str): The prompt to display to the user.

Returns:

    int: The integer entered by the user.

main()

This function is the main driver function that gets the user's choice on whether to encrypt or decrypt, gets the necessary inputs, and displays the results.




Example:

$ python script.py

__name__ and __main__:

This conditional statement is used to execute the main() function only if this script is run directly, and not being imported as a module in another script.
Usage:

    Run the script in a Python environment.
    Follow the prompts to encrypt or decrypt text using a specified shift value.
    Enter 'q' when prompted if you wish to exit the program.






Example:

$ python script.py
Do you want to encrypt or decrypt? (Enter 'e' for encrypt, 'd' for decrypt, 'q' to quit): e
Enter the text: hello world
Enter the shift value: 3
Encrypted text: khoor zruog
Do you want to go again? (y/n): n
Exiting the program. Goodbye!